This is a collaborative projectWe live in an era where many security protocols are prevalent. All important organisations such as banks, factories or warehouses have some security measures involving identification of personnel, usually in the form of RFID cards or pass codes. Such methods prevent public access to private areas responsible for storing valuable objects and sensitive information. It is in the best interest of organisations that only select important individuals having appropriate credentials are allowed to enter these areas. There have been several incidents of tailgating where hackers, spies and criminals got hold of User Id cards and pass codes which were used to intrude into restricted areas. Biometric identification currently provides the best solution as it is impossible to copy features like fingerprints and faces which are unique to every individual. We have decided to work on the problem of Face Recognition for Security and have implemented three CNN models based on the quality and quantity of face images: Simple CNN model, Super Resolution CNN model, and Siamese CNN model. For training the models, Living Faces in the Wild Dataset has been used and we have created several subsets like individuals having at least 50 images, images are pixelated, and individuals having only 10 images. We have found Simple CNN to be quite effective when we have lots of good quality images to train for one person, however, Super Resolution CNN works best with low quality image data and Siamese CNN performs the best when working with small training samples. We have found the accuracies to be 86.44%, 91.34% and 92.57% respectively and for further investigation we would want to incorporate our SR-CNN model with Siamese architecture to work with low-quality images having small sample size. We believe such work to be incred
